+++
title = "encoding"
date = 2023-05-17T11:11:20+08:00
description = ""
isCJKLanguage = true
draft = false
+++
# encoding

https://pkg.go.dev/encoding@go1.20.1



Package encoding defines interfaces shared by other packages that convert data to and from byte-level and textual representations. Packages that check for these interfaces include encoding/gob, encoding/json, and encoding/xml. As a result, implementing an interface once can make a type useful in multiple encodings. Standard types that implement these interfaces include time.Time and net.IP. The interfaces come in pairs that produce and consume encoded data.



## 常量 

This section is empty.

## 变量

This section is empty.

## 函数

This section is empty.

## 类型

### type [BinaryMarshaler](https://cs.opensource.google/go/go/+/go1.20.1:src/encoding/encoding.go;l=18) 

``` go 
type BinaryMarshaler interface {
	MarshalBinary() (data []byte, err error)
}
```

BinaryMarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can marshal itself into a binary form.

MarshalBinary encodes the receiver into a binary form and returns the result.

### type [BinaryUnmarshaler](https://cs.opensource.google/go/go/+/go1.20.1:src/encoding/encoding.go;l=28) 

``` go 
type BinaryUnmarshaler interface {
	UnmarshalBinary(data []byte) error
}
```

BinaryUnmarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can unmarshal a binary representation of itself.

UnmarshalBinary must be able to decode the form generated by MarshalBinary. UnmarshalBinary must copy the data if it wishes to retain the data after returning.

### type [TextMarshaler](https://cs.opensource.google/go/go/+/go1.20.1:src/encoding/encoding.go;l=36) 

``` go 
type TextMarshaler interface {
	MarshalText() (text []byte, err error)
}
```

TextMarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can marshal itself into a textual form.

MarshalText encodes the receiver into UTF-8-encoded text and returns the result.

### type [TextUnmarshaler](https://cs.opensource.google/go/go/+/go1.20.1:src/encoding/encoding.go;l=46) 

``` go 
type TextUnmarshaler interface {
	UnmarshalText(text []byte) error
}
```

TextUnmarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can unmarshal a textual representation of itself.

UnmarshalText must be able to decode the form generated by MarshalText. UnmarshalText must copy the text if it wishes to retain the text after returning.